---
title: "SMS Phishing Detection with Hybrid CNN-GRU"
collection: talks
type: "Symposium"
permalink: /talks/2012-03-01-talk-1
venue: "7th IEEE World Symposium on Communication Engineering (WSCE)"
date: 2024-09-28
location: "Tokyo, Japan"
---

This study presents a deep learning-based approach for detecting smishing attacks using SMS text data. After applying NLP-based preprocessing techniques, a hybrid CNN-GRU model is employed to classify messages.

## Abstract

Smishing is a type of attack that allows access to personal and account data by activating various emotions, especially curiosity, of mobile device users through a link placed in an SMS (Short Message Service) text. Smishing can lead to unauthorized access to individuals' photographs, banking details, email contents, and a variety of other personal information. SMS text data has a complex non-linear structure. Because of this structure, detecting smishing with traditional approaches becomes a difficult task. Due to its nature, identifying smishing using conventional methods poses a challenging endeavor. To overcome these challenges, researchers have embraced deep learning approaches and achieved successful outcomes. Within the scope of this study, various pre-processes were applied to the smishing data set using NLP (Natural Language Processing) techniques to detect smishing. Then, the Hybrid CNN-GRU (Convolutional Neural Network – Gated Recurrent Unit) model was employed and the data were trained. As a result of application, an accuracy rate of 99.96% was achieved with the proposed method. The hybrid CNN-GRU method aims to prevent the attack attempt by detecting differences between normal user behavior and anomalies of the attacker's content. In line with the findings obtained as a result of the study, smishing attacks could be clearly identified.

## Cite
Aslanpençesi, Z., Baykara, M., & Alakuş, T. B. (2024b). SMS Phishing Detection with Hybrid CNN-GRU. In 7th IEEE World Symposium on Communication Engineering (WSCE), Tokyo, Japan (pp. 52–56). IEEE. <https://doi.org/10.1109/wsce65107.2024.00015>
